when David spoke to the Lord the words
of this son
on the day when the Lord had delivered
him from the hand of all his enemies and
from the hand of soul the Lord is my
rock and my fortress and my deliverer
the god of my strength in whom I will
trust my shield and the Horn of my
salvation my stronghold and my refuge my
Savior you saved me from violence I will
call upon the Lord who is worthy to be
praised so shall I be saved from my
enemies when the waves of death
surrounded me the floods of ungodliness
made me afraid The Sorrows of Sheol
surrounded me the snares of death
confronted me in my distress I called
upon the Lord and cried out to my god he
heard my voice from his temple and my
cry entered his ears then the earth
shook and trembled the foundations of
heaven quaked and were shaken because he
was angry smoke went up from his
nostrils and devouring fire from his
mouth coals were kindled by it he bowed
the heavens also and came down with
darkness under his feet he rode upon a
cherub and flew and he was seen upon the
wings of the wind
he made darkness canopies around him to
hurt waters and thick clouds of the
skies from the brightness before him
coals of fire were kindled the Lord
thundered from heaven and the most high
uttered his voice he sent out arrows and
scattered them lightning bolts and he
vanquished them then the channels of the
sea were seen the foundations of the
world were uncovered
at the rebuke of the Lord at the blast
of the breath of his nostrils he sent
from above he took me he drew me out of
many waters he delivered me from my
strong enemy from those who hated me for
they were too strong for me they
confronted me in the day of my calamity
but the Lord was my support he also
brought me out into a broad place he
delivered me because he delighted in me
the Lord rewarded me according to my
righteousness according to the cleanness
of my hands
he has recommenced me for I have kept
the ways of the Lord and have not
wickedly departed from my god for all
his judgments were before me and as for
his statutes I did not depart from them
I was also blameless before him and I
kept myself my iniquity therefore the
Lord has recompense me according to my
righteousness according to my cleanness
in his eyes with the merciful you will
show yourself merciful with a blameless
man you will show yourself blameless
with the pure you will show yourself
pure and let the devious you will show
yourself
shrewd you will save the humble people
but your eyes are on the haughty that
you may bring them down for you are my
lamp Oh Lord the Lord shall enlighten my
darkness for by you
I can run against a troop by my god I
can leap over a wall as for God his way
is perfect
the word of the Lord is proven he is a
shield to all who trust in him
for who is God except the Lord and who
is a rock
except our God God is my strength and
power and he makes my way perfect he
makes my feet like the feet of deer and
sets me on high places
he teaches my hands to make war so that
my arms can bend a bow of bronze you
have also given me the shield of your
salvation your gentleness has made me
great you enlarge my path under me
so my feet did not slip I have pursued
my enemies and destroyed them
neither did I turn back again till they
were destroyed and I have destroyed them
and wounded them so that they could not
rise they have fallen under my feet for
you have armed me with strength for the
battle you have subdued under me those
who rose against me you have also given
me the necks of my enemies so that I
destroyed those who hated me they looked
but there was none to save even to the
Lord but he did not answer them then I
beat them as fine as the dust of the
earth I trod them like dirt in the
streets and I spread them out you have
also delivered me from the strivings of
my people you have kept me as the head
of the nations our people I have not
known shall serve me the foreigners
submit to me
as soon as they hear they obey me the
foreigners fade away and come frightened
from their hideouts the Lord lives
blessed be my rock let God be exalted
the rock of my salvation it is God who
avenges me and subdues the peoples under
me he delivers me from my enemies you
also lift me up above those who rise
against me you have delivered me from
the violent man therefore I will give
thanks to you or Lord among the Gentiles
and sing praises to your name
he is the tower of salvation to his king
and shows mercy to his anointed to David
and his descendants forever more
you